Issue/12 UI part to report (#13)
teamulster2/report: report/03_methodology/03_database_management.md

## Database management

> The soTired application is known divided into two areas, the stand-alone client side as well as the server side with options for evaluation and export. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The soTired application is divided into two areas, the stand-alone client side as well as the server side with options for evaluation and export. 
```

In order to make both areas independent of each other and also to ensure that the values are always available, even if there is no network connection at a certain point of use, it was agreed to create and manage an independet database on both sides.

### Client database

> As described above, the client side is written with the helf of the cross platform framework Flutter and the programming language Dart. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As described above, the client side is written with the help of the cross platform framework *Flutter* and the programming language *dart*. 
```

> Hive describes itself as a 'Fast, Enjoyable & Secure NoSQL Database' [5]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As client side database *Hive* comes in handy.
Hive describes itself as a 'Fast, Enjoyable & Secure NoSQL Database' [5]. 
```

That makes it easy to store database objects in boxes and access them again. 
Hive in conjunction with Flutter also promises great support in terms of use, as this has been specially adapted to it [5]. 

In addition, a NoSQL database was chosen because it is more flexible in terms of the variety of data in the area of research results and the speed required for storing such a large amount of data. 
Espically when thinking of adding additional functionality like audio or video recognition and using artificial intelligence to get information out of that. 
This is particularly suitable for this, as the data is only saved and not read out within the app. 
In this way, all data that is available can be collected without loss and no information is lost through a rigid relational form and can be sent to the server side.

### Server database

> In contrast to this, a relational database is used on the server side in order to be able to organize the results and export them later evaluated, if necessary. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast to this, a relational database is used on the server side in order to be able to organize the results and export them for later evaluation. 
```

> We decided on the lightweight, relational database SQlite that describes itself as an 'small, fast, self-contained, hight-reliability, full-featured, SQL database engine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We decided on the lightweight, relational database SQLite that describes itself as a 'small, fast, self-contained, hight-reliability, full-featured, SQL database engine. 
```

> This rather traditional, but well-known approach to storing large amounts of data promises above all a very structured distribution on the data, from wicht an export can later be made available via a .json file.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a rather traditional, but well-known approach to store large amounts of data.
It promises a very structured distribution of the data, from which an export can be made available via a .json file later on.  
```

> Overall, it can be said that the data structure on the server side looks like described in Figure 2. Therefore the main focus is on the study with the corresponding information and settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, it can be said that the data structure on the server side looks like described in Figure 2. 
Therefore, the main focus is on the study with the corresponding information and settings. 
```

The users assigned to a respective study are also stored in a separate table with the associated primary key for the study. 
This is where the assignment between user and study takes place. 

> Then there are two tables that contain the log structure of the self test and the questionnaire. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, there are two tables that contain the log structure of the self-test and the questionnaire. 
```

## Database management

The soTired application is divided into two areas, the stand-alone client side as well as the server side with options for evaluation and export. 
In order to make both areas independent of each other and also to ensure that the values are always available, even if there is no network connection at a certain point of use, it was agreed to create and manage an independet database on both sides.

### Client database

As described above, the client side is written with the help of the cross platform framework *Flutter* and the programming language *dart*. 
As client side database *Hive* comes in handy.
Hive describes itself as a 'Fast, Enjoyable & Secure NoSQL Database' [5]. 
That makes it easy to store database objects in boxes and access them again. 
Hive in conjunction with Flutter also promises great support in terms of use, as this has been specially adapted to it [5]. 

> In addition, a NoSQL database was chosen because it is more flexible in terms of the variety of data in the area of research results and the speed required for storing such a large amount of data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to *Hive*, a NoSQL database was chosen because it is more flexible in terms of the variety of data in the area of research results and the speed required for storing such a large amount of data. 
```

> Espically when thinking of adding additional functionality like audio or video recognition and using artificial intelligence to get information out of that. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Especially when considering to add additional functionality like audio or video recognition and using artificial intelligence to collect and analyze further information. 
```

This is particularly suitable for this, as the data is only saved and not read out within the app. 
In this way, all data that is available can be collected without loss and no information is lost through a rigid relational form and can be sent to the server side.

### Server database

In contrast to this, a relational database is used on the server side in order to be able to organize the results and export them for later evaluation. 

> We decided on the lightweight, relational database SQLite that describes itself as a 'small, fast, self-contained, hight-reliability, full-featured, SQL database engine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We decided on the lightweight, relational database SQLite that describes itself as a 'small, fast, self-contained, hight-reliability, full-featured, SQL database engine'. 
```

## Database management

The soTired application is divided into two areas, the stand-alone client side
as well as the server side with options for evaluation and export. In order
to make both areas independent of each other and also to ensure that the
values are always available, even if there is no network connection at a
certain point of use, it was agreed to create and manage an independet
database on both sides.

### Client database

As described above, the client side is written with the help of the cross

> platform framework *Flutter* and the programming language *dart*. As client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
platform framework *Flutter* and the programming language *Dart*. As client
```

side database *Hive* comes in handy. Hive describes itself as a 'Fast,
Enjoyable & Secure NoSQL Database' [5]. That makes it easy to store database
objects in boxes and access them again. Hive in conjunction with Flutter also
promises great support in terms of use, as this has been specially adapted to
it [5]. 

In addition to *Hive*, a NoSQL database was chosen because it is more flexible
in terms of the variety of data in the area of research results and the speed
required for storing such a large amount of data. Especially when considering
to add additional functionality like audio or video recognition and using
artificial intelligence to collect and analyze further information. This is
particularly suitable for this, as the data is only saved and not read out
within the app. In this way, all data that is available can be collected

> without loss and no information is lost through a rigid relational form and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
without loss due to a rigid relational form and
```

can be sent to the server side.

### Server database

In contrast to this, a relational database is used on the server side in order
to be able to organize the results and export them for later evaluation. We
decided on the lightweight, relational database SQLite that describes itself
as a 'small, fast, self-contained, hight-reliability, full-featured, SQL

> database engine'. This is a rather traditional, but well-known approach to

Reviewer 2: cite source missing
